- [Instructor] So now it's time to take a look
at a repository in action.
And I'm going to encourage you to put your seatbelts on,
'cause we're going to go through a lot of material here
in this video.
Go ahead and jump over into your IDE,
and if you've loaded the exercise files,
the first thing I want you to notice
is in source by resources,
I've added a data.sql and a schema.sql.
And we're just going to use that to populate a database
so we can actually implement the pattern.
Let's go ahead and open up our base package.
Before we do anything else,
we will create a package called repository.
Now, because we're using Maven and Spring,
we need to add a few things to our pom.
Let's jump into our pom file here.
And we're going to add two dependencies.
The first dependency that we're going to add
is spring-boot-starter-data-jpa.
And that comes from org.springframework.boot.
We'll allow Maven do its resolution there
while we add our second dependency.
And this one is called h2.
And this comes from com.h2database.
And again, we'll let Spring Boot
do its dependency resolution.
Now because we're using Spring data,
we need to add a property
to our application.properties file.
Spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto.
And we need to set that value to equal to none.
This way we tell hibernate to not create the schema
for us on our database.
Use the schema file that I added for you in the project
at schema.sql.
So now to our repository.
We are going to create a new Java class.
And we're going to call this PresidentEntity.
Now because this is JPA, we've got to do a few things.
So, we'll annotate this with that entity.
And we're also going to annotate 'em with @Table.
And we're going to use the table name of PRESIDENT in all caps.
Now, we're going to add an ID from javax.persistence.
@GeneratedValue.
@Column.
And the name of this column is PRESIDENT_ID.
Now you can see the schema that I'm using
if you open up the schema.sql file.
So we'll go ahead and add the rest of our fields here.
So now that we've typed out all of our fields,
we're going to generate getters and setters
using the function in my IDE.
You have one very similar.
And then at the very bottom,
I'm going to do a toString method.
And again, I will generate it.
And once again, most IDEs have the ability to generate.
Take a look at your documentation.
That's all we need to do to our president entity.
So now let's go ahead and create a new Java interface
called PresidentRepository.
And this is going to extend
the CrudRepository from Spring data.
And we need to tell it to use the PresidentEntity.
And then a big-L Long.
We're going to annotate this with that repository
so that Spring picks it up.
And just because we can,
we're going to add a new method to this
called findByEmailAddress.
And that's going to take a string of emailAddress.
Now this is how, in Spring Data JPA,
you would add new methods to your repository itself.
So now what I want to do is write a test
to test our repository pattern.
So I'm going to do that by jumping into our test package here
and opening up the design patterns test
that came for free with Spring Boot.
We're going to auto-wire in an instance of our repository.
So now we can do an @Test.
Public void, testRepository.
And we will simply do a System.out.println
on the presidentRepository.findById.
And we'll send it in 1L.
And let's go ahead and do another one.
And this time, send in two.
And we'll run this test.
We'll ask Spring to load and do its thing.
We can click on the test and see the output.
And you'll see that we got the data from the database
as we would expect in a single domain call.
And that's how you do the repository pattern
using Spring Data JPA.
And if you use Spring Mongo or Spring Data,
any other flavor, you're going to get very similar results.